---
title: Should social media companies like Facebook censor fake news?
author:
    - Dylan Chong (Student ID - 300373593)
date: \today{}
fontsize: 12pt
linestretch: 1.5
documentclass: extreport
margin-left: 2.5cm
margin-right: 2.5cm
margin-top: 2.5cm
margin-bottom: 2.5cm
toc: true
toc-depth: 4
csl: ieee.csl
bibliography: Final Report Bibliography.bib
---

# Introduction

Around the time of the 2016 US Presidential Election, at least 150 fake news
articles flourished, spreading on social media [@fakeNewsStudy]. Given that
these fake articles largely supported Trump [@fakeNewsStudy], and that Trump
won the election, fake news could certainly have been an influence. It is not
desirable to allow fake news to manipulate the outcome of elections.

Since social media is a popular medium for sharing fake news [@fakeNewsStudy],
censoring fake news may appear to be the most obvious way to prevent its
spread. However, as this article discusses, censorship of fake news on social
media is not a reasonable solution.

This report discusses pros and cons of censorship as a solution to the fake
news problem. The reasons for the quick spread of fake news are also discussed.
These lead to reasons why education about fake news is the recommended,
long-term solution to this fake news problem.

This report is intended to inform governments, social media companies, and
members of the public who are interested in discussing solutions to the fake
news problem.

*Note: Any uses of the term 'censorship' from this point forward refers to the
censorship of fake news on social media, unless specified otherwise.*

# Analysis of Censorship and Fake News

This section discusses some pros and some noteworthy cons of censorship.
Lastly, reasons for the quick spread of fake news are discussed in order to
provide a basis for the alternative solution of education about fake news.

## Pros of Censorship

The spreading of fake news has malicious motivations and insights hateful
behaviour/thinking. Censorship would help with both of these problems.

### Preventing Malicious Motivations

There are two main motivations for fake news: financial and political. This
subsection discusses why these motivations are malicious, and how censorship
could help to reduce these.

#### - Motivations for Fake News

The main motivation for the creation and spread of fake news is the advertising
revenue on fake news websites [@fakeNewsStudy]. This is malicious because the
goal of maximising revenue is not aligned with the goal of choosing an
effective party/candidate.

Fake news around the time of the 2016 US Presidential Election was heavily in
favour of Trump [@fakeNewsStudy]. The fact that the Republicans/Trump won the
election raises the concern that fake news affected the election.

Both financial and political motivations for fake news are malicious because a
party can be elected for false reasons, not for their true ability to run a
country. True information about a party can easily be discredited by creating
new false information. This makes it harder for citizens to make and accurate
decision about who to vote for in an election. It is also malicious because, as
described later in this report, fake news can incite hateful behaviour.

#### - How Censorship Could Help

Considering that some fake news articles were more popular than mainstream news
articles on Facebook, it is clear that fake news affects a significant number
of people on social media [@fakeNewsStudy]. Without some method to prevent the
fake news from spreading, such as censorship, fake news will likely continue to
be exploited for political and financial motivations.

Assuming that a large enough number of fake articles can be accurately
identified, social media companies could remove all posts containing a link to
the fake articles. Given the popularity of the fake articles on Facebook
[@fakeNewsStudy], this form of censorship would certainly slow the spread. This
would reduce the advertising revenue gained from fake news, therefore reducing
financial motivations. Censorship would also likely reduce the effectiveness in
terms of boosting the popularity of a party/candidate, due to the reduced
popularity.

### Prevention of Hateful Behaviour

Fake news can incite hateful thinking or behaviour. For example, the Las Vegas
shooting in October 2017 led to fake news to be spread about the shooting
[@nytimesShooting], [@wregDeathThreats]. Among the fake news, there were false
accusations that Geary Danley was the killer [@wregDeathThreats]. The Gateway
Pundit, a blog, labelled Mr. Danley using derogatory terms [@nytimesShooting].
These led to death threats being sent to the family of Mr. Danley
[@wregDeathThreats]. Censorship may have been able to prevent the fake news
from spreading and causing these hateful threats to be sent.

## Cons of Censorship

Although there are benefits to censorship, there are two main reasons why
censorship may not be a good idea. Firstly, there is a great potential for bias
in a process that decides what news is visible to the public. Secondly, it may
be impractical to create and maintain an effective fake news censorship system
due to the freedom of the internet.

### Potential for Biased or Corrupted Censorship

The potential for bias and corruption is both a short and long-term concern
about fake news censorship on social media. A bias in Facebook's fact checking
system and the potential for future biases will be discussed.

#### - Facebook's Fact Checking System Bias

In response to the fake news problem during the 2016 US Presidential Election,
Facebook created a fact checking system. Facebook users can request an article
to be checked by independent organisations such as Politifact. If the fact
checking organisation(s) determine that the article is fake, a 'disputed' space
warning is displayed on the article for everyone to see
[@facebookAddRightWing], [@qzFacebookFactCheck].

Facebook has recently been accused of only using left-leaning fact checkers
[@facebookAddRightWing]. This shows that it is quite easy for a single
organisation to create a bias, whether it is accidental or not.

If the fact checking system had been a censorship system instead, this bias
could have had notable implications. A censorship system would have greater
implications than a fact-checking system because it involves choosing what
information people will be able to see. The system could be exploited to affect
people's beliefs, e.g. influence some right-wing citizens to become more left-wing.

#### - Potential For Future Biases

Suppose that a fake news censorship system is in effect on some popular social
media platforms. As described in an above section, the advertising revenue of
fake new sources should now be reduced. Fake news sources would be incentivised
to find ways of increasing revenue. Governments, especially corrupt ones, could
also try to influence a system for the purposes of exercising control over
populations.

One way to influence the system would be to bribe one or more fact checking
organisations, or even social media companies, to mark certain articles as
'true'. Assuming that this would work on at least one fact checking
organisation, the audience of their articles would be increased, along with
advertising revenue.

If the censorship system were to be introduced, there would be a large risk of
at least one organisation being compromised.

### Impracticality of Censorship on Social Media

It may be impractical for a censorship system to be effective against the
spread of fake news. Firstly, fake news spreads too quickly. This does not help
with the second problem - there is an abundance of fake news articles to
fact-check.

#### - The Quick Spread Of Fake News

Fake news spreads extremely quickly. Within 5 hours, several thousand people
interacted with a fake article posted on Twitter in November last year
[@nytimesReddit]. It is likely many more people saw the article.

The fact checking process currently takes multiple weeks
[@facebookAddRightWing]. Given that fake news can spread in a fraction of this
time, censorship will not work - the article will have already spread to
(at least) several thousand people by the time it can be censored.

#### - Abundance of Fake News

A study performed after the US 2016 Presidential Election catalogued over 150
fake news articles [@fakeNewsStudy]. This only includes articles that were
confirmed to be fake [@fakeNewsStudy]; there was likely more fake articles
around the time the study was conducted. Given the time it takes for a single
article to be fact checked, this adds to the problem of fact checking been far
too slow.

## Why Fake News Spreads So Quickly

Fake news articles are intentionally fabricated to strike a strong emotional
reaction in the readers. Anger and surprise are some of the strong emotions
that fake news sources target. If an article aligns with an existing belief or
suspicion, this adds to the emotional reaction [@nprWhy].

The emotion causes the reader to react online, for example, by sharing the
article with others and commenting on the article. This interaction with the
fake content increases its popularity, and tells Facebook's algorithm to
suggest more similar, fake articles on the user's feed, feeding cycle
[@nprWhy].

# Recommendations

This articles takes a stance against fake new censorship on social media. The
possibility of corruption and the impracticality are the two strongest points
to consider.

Education is a better long-term solution to the big news problem. Education
should increase people's ability to identify fake news - they can reason about
whether the news can logically be accurate, and if it is motivated
politically/financially [@fakeNewsStudy]. The education should also allow
people to recognise the emotional reactions that the fake news exploits. All of
these benefits should reduce the effectiveness of fake news in the long run.

# References
