---
title: Homework Exercise 4
subtitle: ENGR201
author:
    - Dylan Chong
date: \today{}
---

***What was immediately useful for your learning, or are likely to be
beneficial in the future?***

I learned how to do a literature review, something that I would be clueless
about otherwise. This is probably useful for ENGR489, but I haven't taken the
course so I can't say for sure how helpful this would be.

***What do you think was not useful for your learning?***

I think the importance of writing reports in industry has been overstated. For
academic careers, it is understandable that writing (especially literature
reviews) will be important, but not so much and industry. I know of three
student developers working in industry, including myself, and none of us work
in companies whether developers have to write reports (except maybe lead
developers / who work more closely with management staff). I'm sure we will
write reports occasionally/eventually, but probably not "all the time".

***What was confusing?***

The vectorisation topic wording. The updated topic is *"Common techniques used
in machine learning, including support vector machines (at least three
techniques to be discussed)."* Supporting vector machines is a performance
technique, whereas the first phrase on the topic implies that the techniques
are about the learning / articifial intelligence itself (although this
impliciation isn't completely obvious either, and I could be interpreting it
incorrectly). These are two effectively unrelated categories of techniques, so
are not comparable to each other.

Vectorisation is not a topic that most second-year students have even heard of.
Machine learning is a topic that most second-year students don't know anything
about. There are even multiple unrelated uses of the term: vectorisation for
performance (i.e. supporting vector machines), and vectorisation for
representing data as lists of numbers (i.e. as a vector). I believe the latter
is more relevant to the learning. Perhaps link this website so that people know
what the topic means by vectorisation:
http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/04/math-ideas-word-worth-thousand-vectors.html .

***How could the design of the assignment be modified?***

Perhaps give some guidelines on how long each section should be, and how long
each summary should be (roughly). It is easy to write too much.
