# Automated Software Security Testing
#### Literature Review

## Abstract

TODO LAST

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Introduction

Security issues in software can lead to security breaches by hackers, which
usually lead to data loss or corruption, denial of service issues, and
especially, privacy issues [2]. These can cause severe financial, material and
credibility problems for the company organisation under attack [2], not to
mention the potentially damaging effect it could have for investors, related
companies / organisations, and citizens/consumers. A study of data security
breaches showed that issues can reduce customer trust in the affected company /
organisation, while positively affecting competitors [5]; this allows for the
extortion of companies / organisations, especially by competitors. The number
of security issues, especially for financial software, has increased [3],
potentially raising concerns about customer finances. "Effective" means finding
as many issues as possible while minimising the use of resources (such as time
and money).

TODO talk about why automated is important
TODO talk about ROLE

## Available Methods


### Fuzz Testing


#### Black-Box Fuzz Testing


#### White-Box Fuzz Testing - Symbolic Execution


#### SimFuzz

Zhang et al ([7]) proposed a new approach for generating and selecting test
cases for deep execution paths. It as been implemented in a tool called SimFuzz
for experimentation [7]. Deep execution paths are many in number so are very
time consuming to test manually, vulnerabilities are likely to be found in
these deep execution paths. The proposed approach uses a Test Case Similarity
metric (TCS) in order to find similar execution paths to some original deep
path - the resulting set of paths provide high testing coverage around the
original path. 

##### Phases

The SimFuzz approach can be broken down into two phases.

The purpose of the first phase is to create a set of similar inputs that cause
similar deep execution paths, using a proposed Incremental Mutation process.
Begin with a valid input that creates a deep execution path, and break it into
small segments. For each segment, perform a slight alterations and add the
altered input to the set of test cases. Stop when TCS lowers beyond some
threshold is reached [7].

The second phase involves combining multiple test cases from the first phase in
order to create additional test case inputs. This is necessary for finding
vulnerabilities that are only possible when multiple parts of the input have
been malformed in specific ways, and also to make sure that related execution
paths are explored by the test cases [7].

##### Advantages and Limitations

The SimFuzz approach is very efficient because test cases are created
intentionally and selectively because only the important test cases are
executed - the existing White-Box testing approach using Symbolic Execution
creates a large number of test cases and don't filter any out, so the test
generation execution process can be very time-consuming, especially for large
programs. In comparison with the existing Fuzz testing approach, the SimFuzz
approach has a much higher coverage of deep execution paths because most test
cases generated by fuzzing only test shallow execution paths, due to the
randomness and therefore largely invalid inputs. Vulnerabilities are likely to
be found in these deep execution paths and some vulnerabilities are only
possible when certain conditions are met (i.e. the program must be in a deep
state) [7].

The experiments showed that the SimFuzz approach can be effective, but they may
not provide results that are representative of real programs - vulnerabilities
were intentionally added to the experimental programs, rather than accidentally
being introduced [7]. More testing is needed on large, real world software in
order to prove its effectiveness and reveal any flaws.


### STRIDE Risk Analysis and Threat Modelling

TODO link back to fuzz testingin the paragraph below?

Palanivel and Kanmani [6] proposed a security testing process that adds the
STRIDE threat modelling approach used by Microsoft to an existing risk
analysis approach in order to select the highest priority tests from a
generated test suite. This reduces the amount of time required to execute the
test suite. The test suite can be generated by techniques such as Symbolic
Execution [6].

It can be broken down into four phases: State Representation, Threat Modelling,
Risk Analysis, Test Case Selection. The State Representation phase involves the
identification of states and transitions (i.e. dependencies between states)
through the creation of an Extended Finite Machine diagram of the system. The
Threat Modelling phase involves using a state diagram to create a data flow
diagram, which is used with the STRIDE model to identify security threats are
possible in each state of the system. (STRIDE is an acronym for six different
type of threats - spoofing, tampering, repudiation, information disclosure,
denial of service and elevation of privilege.) The results from this phase are
used and the Risk Analysis phase, where a risk value is calculated for each
threat (using metrics such as risk impact - the number of (dependent) states
the threat could affect). Finally, the tests that involve a high number of high
risk states are selected from a generated set of test cases [6].

In comparison with the existing process, which did not use the STRIDE approach
for threat modelling and used different metrics in the Risk Analysis phase, the
proposed process yielded a three times greater total risk value; this implies
that it identified a greater number of risks / identified a greater impact for
the risks. The proposed process was successfully able to reduce the generated
test suite size by 13-21% [6].

### Static Code Analysis Tools


### Summary


## Discussion

TODO

The SimFuzz approach can be combined with Palanivel and Kanmani's risk
analysis and threat modelling approach in order to prioritise the testing of
execution paths that involve high risk operations. Prioritised paths can then
be tested more thoroughly in order to increase the probability of finding
hidden vulnerabilities.

Zhang et al intend to extend the SimFuzz tool to work with binary executables
and web applications [7]. The application of the tool to the web could be
particularly useful especially in a language such as JavaScript which uses weak
typing - a feature that can cause unexpected issues to arise. The tool could
also be extended to simulate network connectivity quality, in order to test
states that can only be reached by corrupting incoming data. Potentially it may
be possible to simulate concurrent systems which are hard to test thoroughly
and prone to unpredictable behaviour at runtime - therefore it may be worth
testing these systems for vulnerabilities.

## Conclusion

TODO

